# Requests

# Introduction

The Request class is initialized when the server first starts and changes based on every request by the framework. The Request class is loaded into the IOC container so any Service Provider will have access to it. The IOC container allows all parts of the framework to be resolved by the IOC container and auto inject any dependencies they need. Read more about the IOC container in the [Service Container](/service-container.md) documentation.

### Getting Started

The `Request` class is bound into the IOC container once when the server is first started. This takes the WSGI environment variables generated by your WSGI server as a parameter. Because of this, we reload the WSGI values on every request. This is done already for you by Masonite. This `Request` class is bound and initialized inside the `AppProvider` Service Provider. We grab this request object by simply passing in `Request` into the parameters of anything resolved by the Service Container such as middleware, drivers and controller methods like so:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    # Request is the instance of the Request class
    pass
```

Masonite is smart enough to know that we need the `Request` class and it will inject it into our method for us.

#### Helper Function

Masonite ships with a `HelpersProvider` Service Provider which adds several helper functions. One of these helper functions is the `request()` function. This function will return the request object. Because of this, these two pieces of code are identical:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    Request.input('username')
```

```python
def show(self):
    request().input('username')
```

Notice we didn't import anything at the top of our file and also didn't retrieve any objects from the IOC container. Masonite helper functions act just like any other built in Python function. Read more about helper functions in the [Helper Functions](/helper-functions.md) documentation.

## Usage

The `Request` has several helper methods attached to it in order to interact with various aspects of the request.

In order to get the current request input variables such as the form data during a `POST` request or the query string during a `GET` request looks like:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    Request.input('username')
```

**NOTE: There is no difference between any HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, etc etc) when it comes to getting input data. They are both retrieved through this **`.input()`** method so there is no need to make a distinction if the request is **`GET`** or **`POST`

## Method Options



### Input Data

We can get all the request input variables such as input data from a form request or GET data from a query string. Note that it does not matter what HTTP method you are using, the input method will know what input data to get dependent on the current HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc)

This will return all the available request input variables for that request as a dictionary.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.all()
```

To get a specific input:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.input('firstname')
```

To check if some request input data exists:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.has('variable')
```



### URL Parameters

To get the request parameter retrieved from the url. This is used to get variables inside: `/dashboard/@firstname` for example.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.param('firstname')
```

### Cookies

You may also set a cookie in the browser. The below code will set a cookie named `key` to the value of `value`. By default, all cookies are encrypted with your secret key which is generated in your `.env` file when you installed Masonite.

#### Creating

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.cookie('key', 'value')
```

If you choose to not encrypt your values and create cookies with the plain text value then you can pass a third value of `True` or `False`. You can also be more explicit if you like:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.cookie('key', 'value', encrypt=False)
```

All cookies are set as session cookies. This means that when the user closes out the browser completely, all cookies will be deleted.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.cookie('key', 'value', expires="5 minutes")
```

This will set a cookie thats expires 5 minutes from the current time.

#### Reading

You can get all the cookies set from the browser

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.get_cookies()
```

You can get a specific cookie set from the browser

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.get_cookie('key')
```

Again, all cookies are encrypted by default so if you set a cookie with encryption then this method will decrypt the cookie. If you set a cookie in plain text then you should pass the `False` as the second parameter here to tell Masonite not to decrypt your plain text cookie value. If you do not do this then Masonite will throw an invalid token exception:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.get_cookie('key', decrypt=False)
```

This will return the plain text version of the cookie.


#### Deleting

You may also delete a cookie. This will remove it from the browser as well.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.delete_cookie('key', decrypt=False)
```


### User

You can also get the current user from the request. This requires the `LoadUserMiddleware` middleware which is in Masonite by default. This will return an instance of the current user.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.user()
```

### Redirection
You can specify a url to redirect to

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.redirect('/home')
```

If the url contains `http` than the route will redirect to the external website

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.redirect('http://google.com')
```

You can redirect to a named route

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.redirectTo('dashboard')
```

You can also go back to a named route specified from the form input `back`. This will get the request input named `back` and redirect to that named route. This is great if you want to redirect the user to a login page and then back to where they came from. Just remember during your form submission that you need to supply a `back` input.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.back()
```

This is equivalent to:

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.redirectTo(request.input('back'))
```

You can also specify the input parameter that contains the named route

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.back('redirect')
```

Sometimes your routes may require parameters passed to it such as redirecting to a route that has a url like: `/url/@firstname:string/@lastname:string`. For this you can use the `send` method. Currently this only works with named routes.

```python
def show(self, Request):
    return Request.back().send({'firstname': 'Joseph', 'lastname': 'Mancuso'})

    return Request.redirectTo('dashboard').send({'firstname': 'Joseph', 'lastname': 'Mancuso'})
```

### Encryption Key

You can load a specific secret key into the request by using:

```python
Request.key(key)
```

This will load a secret key into the request which will be used for encryptions purposes throughout your Masonite project. **Note that by default, the secret key is pulled from your configuration file so you do NOT need to supply a secret key, but the option is there if you need to change it**

### Headers

You can also get and set any headers that the request has. You can get all header information by printing:

```python
print(Request.environ)
```

This will print the environment setup by the WSGI server.

You can also get a specific header:

```python
Request.header('AUTHORIZATION')
```

This will return whatever the `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION` header if one exists. If that does not exist then the `AUTHORIZATION` header will be returned. If that does not exist then `None` will be returned.

We can also set headers:

```python
Request.header('AUTHORIZATION', 'Bearer some-secret-key')
```

Masonite will automatically prepend a `HTTP_` to the header being set for standards purposes so this will set the `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION` header. If you do not want the http prefix then pass a third parameter:

```python
Request.header('AUTHORIZATION', 'Bearer some-secret-key', http_prefix=None)
```

This will set the `AUTHORIZATION` header instead of the `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION` header.

## Status Codes

Masonite will set a status code of `404 Not Found` at the beginning of every request. If the status code is not changed throughout the code, either through the developer or third party packages, then the status code will continue to be `404 Not Found` when the output is generated. You do not have to explicitly change specify this as the framework itself handles status codes. You could change this status code in either any of your controllers or even a third party package.

For example, the Masonite Entry package sets certain status codes upon certain actions on an API endpoint. These can be `429 Too Many Requests` or `201 Created`. These status codes need to be set before the `StartProvider` is ran so if you have a third party package that sets status codes or headers, then they will need to be places above this Service Provider in a project.

If you are not specifying status codes in a package and simple specifying them in a controller then you can do so freely without any caveats. You can set status codes like so:

```python
Request.status('429 Too Many Requests')
```

This will set the correct status code before the output is sent to the browser. You can look up a list of HTTP status codes from an online resource and specify any you need to, there are no limitations to which ones you can use.

## Changing Request Method in Forms

Typically, forms only have support for `GET` and `POST`. You may want to change what http method is used when submitting a form such as `PATCH`.

This looks like this:

```html
<form action="" method="POST">
    <input type="hidden" name="request_method" value="PATCH">
</form>
```

or you can optionally use a helper method:

```html
<form action="" method="POST">
    {{ request_method('PATCH')|safe }}
</form>
```

When the form is submitted, it will process as a PUT request instead of a POST request.